# Project background
================================================================================================================================

LUCinLA employs a framework developed by Jordan Graesser to synthesize large quantities of satellite imagery from multiple sensors to generate high-resolution (sub-10m) landcover maps focused on agriculture/vegetation.

Current LUCinLA projects in Robert Heilmayr's Conservation Economics Lab (CEL) include:
* A NASA-funded grant on property values and land-use change in Paraguay and Uruguay:  The supporting map, produced by the procedure outlined in this guide, will be a high-resolution maps of fields, identified to crop-type, across a large region spanning Paraguay and Uruguay (focusing on the Pampas, Chaco, and Alto Parana Atlantic Forest regions).
* Forest mapping in Chile, to assess affect of payments to private landowners on forest cover (and forest type in terms of natural vs. plantation) and ultimately carbon stocks.

These projects involve large study areas but small units-of-analysis (field sizes are often <2ha). The framework outlined in this guide enables large quantities of satellite data to be ingested and processed to generate carefully calibrated, gap-filled weekly time-series data over the entire study region at 10m resolution. A previous version of our processing protocol [here](https://klwalker-sb.github.io/LUCinSA/intro.html) ingested imagery from Google Earth Engine. New methods using STAC-based sources and methods now allow for faster ingestion and processing. The SpatioTemporal Asset Catalog (STAC) provides a standardized method to search for and store satellite imagery (see [this site](https://stacspec.org/en/about/) for much more information about STAC). We combine STAC inputs with array-based processing methods and a gridded structure to maximize parallel computations on a modest HPC computing environment. The workhorse for most of our processing is [Geowombat,](https://geowombat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) a powerful open-source toolkit for processing raster data at scale. 

On top of Geowombat, we have developed pipelines specific to our areas/periods of interest and data needs. Data is ingested, processed into clean data cubes, and then converted to high-resolution vegetation maps via spectral analysis and pattern recognition methods including boundary identification (segmentation) and sequential learning to identify seasonal cycles.  
